---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 4
---

Hi, I am Cameron, a software and mechanical engineer with a doctorate degree in mechanical engineering and a master degree in computer science. I have devoted most of my time to developing software for additive manufacturing, specifically focusing on bridging the gap between design and manufacturing. My journey into programming began with writing Fortan codes for finite element analysis. During the final semester of my doctorate program, I had my first encounter with a 3D printer. Like many other engineers, I was captivated by its simplicity and amazed at the possibilities it held. This simple mechanical system, when paired with the right software, has the potential to unlock the true capabilities of 3D manufacturing. It was this realization that sparked my desire to delve into computer science and finally earned a master degree of computer science.

I began my coding journey with Fortran and Matlab. As I delved deeper into the realm of numerical computation and data visualization, I honed my skills by extensively working with C/C++, C#, and Python. I later embarked on an exciting exploration
of web development. The diverse range of technologies and frameworks, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and others, has transformed the web development landscape, enabling the creation of dynamic and interactive web experiences. Embracing the mindset of a lifelong learner, I am committed to exploring new avenues and embracing new challenges. I firmly believe that the pursuit of knowledge is a never-ending journey, and I eagerly look forward to the discoveries and growth that lie ahead.

The more I learn about software, the more I realize the incredible potential of software to create opportunities.
While some individuals may perceive a technology as not yet ready, it is often the challenge of addressing key problems through software solutions that can unlock its true potential. Take the example of a 3D printer. While its mechanical system is such simple that probably any engineering student can build one from scratch, it is the slicing software that truly makes it usable. EV industry, as an other example, demonstrates how important roles a Battery Management System (BMS) plays. Sometimes you just need to take a different perspective. Who knows stacking multiple lithium batteries together with a BMS can provide commercially available products? Had we invested all resources in making breakthroughs in material science to enhance batteries' lifespan, energy density, and reliability, we would not see such rapid market adoption of EVs. Because fundamental research takes decades to see any breakthroughs. We are living in an era full of opportunities. The question is, how do we find them?
